what is up everybody welcome to another
episode of AMA live I'm your host Tom
bill you and I'm gonna be taking your
questions and we're gonna have a lot of
fun together it is the Friday of a
holiday weekend so I am super curious to
see what kind of vibe we get today
hopefully it is all about a mixture of
going hard and the things you love I
know I'm thinking about one simple thing
making those two the same thing so
hopefully you guys are embarking on that
journey with me without further ado I
want to address the first question which
is from Louie Christine this is from the
connecting box hey Tom I've been
building my morning rituals and habits
like exercising eating healthy reading
and I've been pretty successful at
keeping at it for the first half of this
year but this month has been challenging
depressing and frustrating how do you
follow through with these habits knowing
that they are important on days that you
have more things to prioritize and just
don't feel like keeping at it all right
this is exactly what I'm talking about
in terms of making the things that
you're doing in your life also the
things you love doing so putting at the
core of where you spend your time
something that you have a deep and
lasting passion and interest in now that
doesn't mean that you're not gonna have
to do insanely hard things but when your
habits and routines start to suck what
you need to focus on is that thing that
is giving you the energy it's that thing
that you love doing it's that thing that
made it important enough to build a
habit around in the first place so what
I mean by that is take working out for
instance 9 times out of 10 I just do it
because it's a part of my routine I go
in I work out I don't enjoy it but
honestly I'm not even thinking about
that so I just go in I do it I get my
workout in when I'm having a hard time
and I don't want to do it then I focus
on the thing that made me create the
habit in the first place which usually
is around just being able to generate
biological energy I don't even mean
psychological energy I'm talking literal
ATP energy wanting to be able to perform
at my best from a cognitive standpoint
and so I'll focus on those things I'll
focus on that end result the thing that
I'm excited about or in the case of
working out maybe it's the aesthetics so
your look
something that actually gets you excited
so on the days where the habits suck
it's because you're losing touch with
that thing that made them worthwhile in
the first place so reconnect with that
cycle through what the things are that
you're doing it for so going back to the
gym so I do the gym because I want to
live forever and that seems like a least
reasonable strategy to give medical
science time to catch up I want to do it
because of the actual strength being
strong I want to do it because I want to
look good I want to do it because it is
the cognitive optimization and I want to
do it because it's a hard thing and it's
important to do those hard things and I
want to do a turn credibility with
myself okay so I've got like six reasons
and any one of them and any one day may
not be the thing that's gonna get me
through but when you focus on literally
cycling through them until you get to
the one that hah yeah like right now
that's actually giving me energy and
sometimes you may then have to really
dig deep and figure out like your
mission in life so if I'm really
struggling to make it happen and I think
about the people that I'm trying to help
with everything that I'm doing then I
think well if I'm healthy am I gonna be
able to better serve them yes I am if
I'm cognitively optimized am I gonna be
able to better serve them yes I am so on
those moments if I'm really struggling
to make it happen then I'll go all the
way down to just that grand mission in
life the thing that gives me the most
energy in my life so find that thing
that is the key to making your habit
stick that's the key when you're just
you don't want to do it that you're
gonna lean on that and then the one
final note as always identity is the
thing that gets me through and like just
a real bind I'm the type of person that
so I've just to be the kind of person
that I want to be to feel the way about
me that I want to feel I need to do the
things that I said that I was going to
do and so if I've said that I'm gonna do
that habit that routine that whatever
then because I'm the type of person that
follows through with the things that I
said I'm gonna do and I'm the type of
person that has literally built these
things into my life because they're
meaningful and they lead me where I want
to go just to be consistent with my
identity I need to do that alright next
up is from Dan
no breeze the ever engaging this is from
Facebook what do you recommend for a
person who isn't fulfilled in their
position to make sure that they don't
get caught in a loop of negativity while
searching for something else all right
this is all about mental management
I don't read like not too long ago oh I
really want to remember who this is I'm
doing them a disservice because this
really impacted me and it was that when
they wake up in the morning one of the
things that they do and I think we may
have already aired the episode of the
person that said this so hopefully one
of you guys can chime in and remind me
who said this but they were saying that
they'll set their their emotional
intention like the thing that they want
to feel by like putting on a song by
literally saying okay that that's what
they said now I'm saying what I found
going along with like picking a song or
setting something like that that I
literally just remind myself feel good
be upbeat I know how dumb that sounds
but it literally works like some part of
you in inside at a biological level
knows the mechanisms knows the neuro
chemistry to pump so you don't have to
like think about what neurotransmitters
you want to pump you literally just
remind yourself feel good feel good and
I find it always changes my posture so
I'm gonna do something with my body so
for those that are listening and not
watching I'm gonna sit up taller I'm
going to put my shoulders back I'm going
to smile a little
even if I'm all by myself I put what I
call a hint of a smile on my face and in
doing that it is so weird how those
physical hooks actually start to change
your neuro chemistry and then if I
really need to or want to just for fun
to have that energy I will put on a song
that really gets me in a fun place that
song which normally works isn't working
that day I will skip and find another
one but in just reminding yourself to
feel that way in making the demand of
yourself from a playful fun place that I
can literally right now in this moment
choose to exist in a state of happiness
of going through gratitude all of those
things will work to prime your mind to
feel that stuff
now I think Lisa will be the first to
say recently I've been working so much
and when I say that you know like
literally it was in a phenomenal way it
was absurd but it was just like
literally every conceivable time nook
and cranny was taken up with work and it
was just having this hardening effect on
me which is what I find happens I get so
engrossed in that and it's so about
grinding grit and perseverance and all
that that playfulness begins to just get
crowded out but it is so easy to bring
back without stopping what I'm doing
without stopping what I'm pursuing but
just remind myself to bring that energy
back and Lisa felt that change she could
see that I was accidentally hardening up
and I was losing that playfulness and
then I just started reminding myself
that I could set that intention and I
could bring that playfulness I could
bring that spark of joy back by doing
those simple things that I just walked
you through so if you're looking for
some big transition just on a daily
basis reminding yourself to do that and
then having awareness around the mental
traps that you fall into whatever those
are gonna be I don't think there are
universal ones mine being hardening up I
just know that I recognize that about
myself so whatever yours is hearing
people talk a lot about like doing
things giving from a place of not
expecting to receive alright if you do
and you're giving and this was really
true for me in the beginning when I
started making this switch was I was
doing it serving made me feel good but I
still had this expectation of a return
and it's super weird you're doing this
beautiful stuff for people but at the
core of your being is still this like
sucking wound of a need to get something
back and you start finding that you have
like this weird resentment and you're
not even sure who it's about
but you because you're looking for like
some return once you understand and
again this is just an example of what
some people fall prey to these happen to
be ones that I've had to deal with so
you find that like there's still this
like expectation this desire to get
something back and therefore the all the
gratitude practice in the world isn't
going to work all the serving isn't
work because you're doing it waiting for
the echo right so what I tell people is
yes that echo of building a beautiful
community around you is almost certainly
gonna serve you and it's gonna build
amazing things in your life and you're
gonna meet somebody that's gonna open a
door and all that but if you're doing it
to get the door open you're in real
trouble so to use one clear analogy the
echo of the shout is the thing that
builds the community but if you focus on
the echo and fail to enjoy the shout
then you're going to be in real trouble
and the you're just never gonna get what
you you're never going to get the
feeling of joy that you're hoping for by
doing all of that because even gratitude
if the gratitude is meant to give you
something like you're doing it because
you want that follow uneffective oh I'm
feeling better and all you're really
thinking about is get me on the other
side of this I want to feel better
instead of actually being stoked on
something that you have in your life
like actually taking the time to be like
[__] this is amazing whatever that is
somebody's smile the breeze having a
window having a roof over your head I
mean all things that are super easy to
take for granted but if you really pour
yourself into actually enjoying that
little thing you'll find then you
actually get what you wanted which is
you start feeling better but if you're
just running through the motions to feel
better oddly enough it doesn't work
christopher de bella this is youtube hey
Tom are you going to be at New York City
Comic Con it's funny how if you could
have seen me in an fMRI machine when I
saw NYCC I feel a warmth towards you
already this year with the book I'm so
excited for it dude thank you so much
and yes we're going to have a massive
presence there we just upgraded the size
of our booth which I'm very excited
about because we're going to be and
we're gonna be doing this soon probably
I'll say in the next 60 days for sure
maybe the next 45 days we're gonna be
announcing the celebrity that's involved
with the book I am so excited about this
book and it's coming together well this
book is gonna be absolute top-tier
[Music]
quality it's really coming together so
super amped up about that absolutely we
will be there we will be there in a big
way so come by say what's up
at New York City Comicon the celebrity
is gonna be there signing with the
creative team it's being written by an
Eisner award-winning writer named Jim
Krueger by the way I guess that one's
not secret hopefully everybody knows
he's been working on it with us and
co-written by a guy named Phil Hester
who's done some amazing work in the past
and just it's so so so excited to be
working with those guys and then the
artists which we'll be revealing soon
insane insane all right Devin sure I'm
sure
YouTube hey Tom I'm curious how you
determine what your top tasks are for
any given day this is a great question
already I have many different to-do
items and it's hard to know what to
prioritize okay
so you've got to know what's my goal
where am I trying to get to you're gonna
back into the daily tasks okay so now if
we know what we're looking at our daily
tasks that are meant to feed into some
longer-term goal what we're looking for
are lead dominoes so what are the things
like if I do this then it will have a
knock-on effect so I'll give you an
example one lis Domino for me is always
to delegate so I'm always starting my
day by thinking what can I delegate
because once I delegate something then
it starts moving on so on my list of
important things one of the sections is
to delegate so doing that that is it's a
time multiplier it's a force multiplier
so if I get that going then now we'll
send that project is running and it's
essentially like I've just added
man-hours to my day so I'm gonna start
with those things I'm gonna make sure
that everybody's moving doing the things
that they want the next thing is what is
a roadblock an impediment to something
that's important in my world generating
revenue or building the community those
are the two things that like I really
think about so if I do this thing will
it generate revenue or will it make the
community bigger so those are the two
things that we have to do now ultimately
the reason that I give a [__] I care
deeply about revenue is revenue is the
juice man it is the engine that is going
to allow whatever you're doing to go on
so making sure that you're thinking
about things that are actually going to
generate revenue for you and then for us
the community is those are the people
that we want to serve they also give us
a lot of power so thinking about them
but ultimately we won't be able to serve
them for very long if we're not able to
get the revenue coming in that we want
and even if
have revenue coming in and were
profitable every bit more revenue that
we get because we're filtering it back
into the company then we're just able to
serve more and more people so I'm always
looking at those two things now let's
see if I can really go even farther than
that I'm looking for things that god
yeah I'm not even sure how to put words
to this but so let me walk you through
what I was doing this morning
I started with the delegation I got
everybody moving and then I went to
creating new products and thinking about
what were the people that we needed to
bring on to the team in order to expand
in the directions that we wanted to
expand so really when it comes down to
it all the things that I'm looking for
are things that either are a concrete
tangible step forward or for me given
what my position is I'm looking for
things that force multiply my time so
that's that is the the lead domino
beyond that I really have to go through
and think through the thing that is
largely intuitive for me at this point
so I've now run out of words that are
very specific and actionable so I will
leave it at that all right Patrick
Rivera Facebook Tom how do I change
co-workers perception of me question
mark exclamation question mark
exclamation
I'm villainized for holding an employee
that has such terrible work ethic
accountable and giving them silent
treatment as a result okay I need to
read this question again I'm villainized
for holding an employee that has such
terrible work ethic accountable and
giving them silent treatment as a result
all right so one if you're giving if
your version of holding them accountable
is giving them the silent treatment that
does not seem like an effective strategy
so you need to read Ray Dalio sprin
suppose so
Ray Dalio principles for me are above
reproach when they're done well which is
that you need to be able to say truth
and hear truth and if you are able to do
both of those things in equal measure
meaning you're not trying to be cruel in
saying what you think but you're you're
very clear you're very constructive
you're letting people know if you see
something that is not working well that
you're quick
to say when something is working well
and that you're insanely receptive when
somebody wants to point something out to
you and something that wasn't covered in
the book but I will say here even if
somebody is wielding that criticism
towards you like a weapon if you never
push back you thank them you take it in
you ignore what isn't real you ignore
the part of it that's an attack but you
really take onboard the part that is
usable and is real criticism you're
gonna earn that reputation over time now
my thing is we all earn our reputation
so if you're being villainized chances
are maybe you had the right motive maybe
this person really does have terrible
work ethic but maybe weren't
compassionate maybe you didn't just do
it in a way that they were able to hear
and take that feedback on constructively
maybe you were using it like a weapon if
you're saying that you were giving them
the silent treatment I can't tell if you
were giving them yeah it looks like you
were giving them the silent treatment so
that seems like a more cruel strategy
cruel a little aggressive but childish
is very accurate so you have to be
really careful they're probably reacting
to the way you did things instead of
what you did so the way that you're
gonna change your perception is change
your behavior now there's always a life
time and this is where heroes are made
and born boys and girls listen to this
there is always a gap between when you
start acting in a way that's in
alignment with how you really want to be
and the goals you really want to achieve
and what's getting you the real result
that you want to get and when other
people notice it so you're gonna have to
act the right way for quite some time
months and months and months before
people are gonna notice and what happens
this is where people lose they get
frustrated they say I've changed my
behavior they still aren't like opening
up and like seeing that I've made a
change and so they give up before
they've had the time for people to
really stop and go yeah wow they really
aren't like that anymore so if you can
survive that time and keep doing it
because you really believe it's the
right thing and that to me is the key
don't do it because oh this is how I'm
gonna change the perception around me do
it because you realize oh [__] like I
didn't actually make mean to make them
feel bad I wasn't trying to beat them up
or slap them around it's not okay to
have [__] work ethic trust me when I say
I totally agree with that
at the same time learn from my mistakes
I've gone after people I've gone at them
hard hard and that kind of stuff
99 times over 100 it's gonna backfire on
you you want to go at people with
compassion you want to let them know
what the standard is you want to make it
very clear what's acceptable and what's
not acceptable but man before you can
make it with a drawl you've got to make
deposits you've got to be supportive
you've got to meet people with
compassion you've got to understand
you've got to listen you've got a really
really in your heart want to know why
they're underperforming and if you can
really figure that out really be
compassionate about it help them rise up
to the standard and if they don't rise
up to the standard then you can begin to
and I don't know where your position is
or how you're related to that person but
be in a position to what I want to say
is when you're in a position of
leadership and you can obviously
terminate that person I have no beef
with terminating people but if you're
not in that position then you can at
least establish what the what the
expectations should be of the group and
if you can motivate and inspire people
to rise up to that then you've really
got something and if you're unable to
get people to be motivated to rise up to
play at your level and by the way the
way that you get people to want to play
at your level is not to be like I'm the
hardest worker here you never say that
you just bury everybody in results every
day every day every day I don't think I
ever once it's tricky now that I'm on
cameras I say the [__] all the time but
like off-camera I'm not telling
everybody I outwork you I work harder
than you it's merely I set the stage
people see it they can see how hard I'm
working so if they see that and by the
way that you go and meet people and try
to lift them up that's how you're
ultimately gonna flip people around rah
be humble great last name YouTube hi Tom
I've I have bad habits like smoking weed
and binge eating I know you're probably
going to say to stop smoking weed but I
find sticking to good habits extremely
hard because they are boring okay so
there's a lot in this to unpack so first
of all thank you very much you're saying
something you already expect me to push
back on you're still willing to talk
about
so in fact as an example of just meaning
somebody with compassion here's the
thing I don't have a philosophical
problem with weed if you find that it
slows you down and is making you less
likely to pursue something then I would
say it's not serving you but if you find
that you're keeping it two times where
it's playtime for you it's not time that
you expect yourself to be working and
you're not concerned about the long-term
health consequences which is really what
freaks me out that man go for it I
literally don't have a beef whatsoever
with that so it just comes down to what
are your goals and is it moving you
towards or holding you back now the
thing that I really want to get into is
sticking with your good habits is
extremely hard because they're boring so
whenever something is boring it's
because somebody's pursuing something
that they actually don't give a [__]
about and that's the problem so for
instance eating healthy food all the
time is isn't thrilling in the way that
say eating a bag of Oreos is or black
licorice which is a personal favorite of
mine or fried food which is truly my
weakness that stuff is fun man you want
to talk about a dopamine cascade I could
take a random Tuesday and make it feel
like a Saturday night just by deciding
that I'm gonna cheat on my diet now I
don't do that I cheat maybe twice a year
so it is when I say it is crazy rare and
yet my life is full of things that
thrill me and I use that word on purpose
now what it comes back to is going back
to the whole topic of today habits and
how you stick with them even when you're
bored even when it's not interesting
anymore the long after stopped being fun
the very secret to habits is caring
about the thing that that habit is meant
to lead to but for real like really what
do you care about and for instance here
is a life I pass no judgment on man
because if this is what you want and it
like you love it and you're filled with
fulfillment it's amazing great if you
want to sit at home all day and you want
to cut your life to the absolute quick
financially so that you're living in
a tiny hovel with five other people fine
and you're eating Tina's burrito so I
don't even know if they still exist but
when I was way hardcore poor they were
awesome because it was three for $0.99
which was amazing so I could live off of
that and you're cool you boil it down to
nothing you don't have a car no
insurance nothing and you accept that my
life is gonna be shorter than it would
otherwise be and what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna smoke weed a lot and I'm going
to eat bad food
a lot man respect like if you do it with
your eyes wide open and you're loving it
you're having a great time it just the
only reason that you never hear me talk
about that stuff is from my experience
from what I've seen of other people the
only thing that gives the human animal
the the best feeling which is to feel
good about yourself when you're by
yourself is to do the hard things and to
do things that bring fulfillment and the
things that bring fulfillment are often
born of momentary suffering but they
allow you to get stronger in order to
serve other people that's it that's just
what I've seen so I don't think it's
better than the alternative that I just
described it's just the only thing that
I've seen really lead to that sense of
like deep fulfillment so my thing about
the the specific part about the good
habits are hard to sit with because
they're boring just you've got to
attached habits the things you actually
really and truly care about no one can
tell you what to care about you can
certainly build that into your life you
can take something that's an interest
and build it into something you care
deeply about which I've talked endlessly
about so I won't go into it here but
that is very very possible associate
your habits of that thing suddenly the
habits would be very easy don't judge
yourself live your life the way you want
but respect the realities of neuro
chemistry all right dr. Jack Callahan
Tom I understand how to develop or
cultivate a passion but where should one
look to find something to get passionate
about is this an introspective journey
or something more extrinsic okay so it
is actually oddly enough
step one is not introspective step one
is get out play get lost
have fun try a lot of things challenge
every
that you have get out of your age
bracket hang out with people way outside
of how you grew up a totally different
circle you will be utterly shocked
utterly shocked by what ends up being of
interest to you again you're not going
to stumble on some grand passion but
you're gonna stumble on something that's
interesting to you Wow never never even
knew this existed and yet I find myself
interested and I want to go down that
path but the only way to do that is to
get outside this freakishly small bubble
that you have this is why a lot of
people and I say that because all of us
live in a freakish a small bubble and
this is a reason that people often tell
travel as a way to really shake up their
assumptions about the world thinks they
didn't realize we're assumptions to go
and see the way other people live and
realize whoa like they seem like they're
having an amazing time and yet they do
things so dramatically different than
the way that I was raised for instance
so getting out and even if you can't
leave your house the internet the
internet man the internet will introduce
you to the most a collective eclectic
people on the planet so if you can't
afford to travel get a device with an
internet connection and just start
searching random [__] follow random
stuff and see where it leads and and
this is one of the ways that I do my
interview prep is when somebody mentions
something and I don't know what it is it
sounds intriguing but there's no like
links in what I'm doing know for me to
just easily go down that rabbit hole I
will stop I will open up a new window
and I will type that phrase in which I
mean I don't even know what it means and
I'll start going down trying to figure
out like what does this mean like where
does this lead and it oftentimes
literally a random word in a single
sentence that I looked up simply because
I did not know what it meant and it will
unfurl this entire universe of stuff
that I had no idea I will tell you a
rabbit hole that I went down recently
you guys are gonna be weirded out by
this one lit I'm researching someone
else entirely but in the recommended
videos there is this guy with like a
whole bunch of people around and looks
really thuggish tattoos on his face his
a tattoo on his face that says 6-9 and
then he's got this rainbow colored hair
I'd never heard of 6-9 I was like
who the hell is that I click on it just
because it was weird I click on it and
go into this whole world of this guy
who's a hardcore rapper who's like
caught up in all this weird beef but it
was so interesting to see how this guy
lives his life and yeah anyway it was
really fascinating this whole thing
about letting your nuts drag I had never
heard that colorful phrase before and I
lost myself in this rabbit hole of 69
but then that led to like these other
hip-hop artists and then like hip hop
art ist's meaning they're doing art but
it's all urban culture it was so cool
and it all started because I clicked on
this weird image of this guy with this
rainbow colored hair
so following stuff like that going down
these weird rabbit holes that's how you
won like your world is gonna be so
vibrant I I want to really physically
freak out and if cameras weren't with
such shallow depth-of-field right now I
would be like guys enrich your lives go
down these weird rabbit holes when a
friend invites you to do something super
weird say yes go try it that's how
you're gonna find this stuff but it
isn't it isn't turning inward and I'm a
huge believer and I spend way more than
80 percent of my time inward reflecting
inward but that isn't the first step the
first step is encountering then you can
reflect Jacob Holstein YouTube what
should I do if my girlfriend is holding
me back from working because she wants
to have more time with me I have lived
through this so I will tell you right
now I'm going to make the assumption
that you love this person that you want
to be connected to them you want to
invest do it there is plenty of time to
work I'm all about it I grind all that
but man when a weekend comes I
prioritize my wife it doesn't mean that
I'm not still working but it does mean
that in terms of hours spent I flipped
the ratio and I start making sure time
with my wife comes first
I'm fully engaged I'm not on my phone
we're not talking about work like we're
just going into this ecosystem of just
her and I am talking about things that
are exciting and figuring out where each
person is and sharing them being open in
physical contact it's
just man relationships are beautiful and
to miss out on that to miss out on that
connection to miss out on a chance to
really enjoy the pleasure of another
human being is to me a missed
opportunity so if not her if you resent
time with Herc's you're just not that
into her like that's also okay and you
can move on to a different relationship
but being at the point in your life
where you find somebody that you really
want to invest in and you really want to
spend that time with them that is a
beautiful thing and my life would have
been less had I not met my wife there's
just no uncertain terms about that now
for 6 and 1/2 years I ignore the [__]
out of my wife I didn't take days off I
didn't go on vacation and so finally she
pulled me aside and said okay this is
now damaging our relationship and so I
realized we just have to prioritize
spending time together now I have limits
during the week I spend virtually I'm
with my wife physically all the time but
we don't spend any time together as
husband and wife so to give you an idea
this week I think my wife has two or
three times come up behind me and like
giving me a hug while I'm like listening
to a podcast or something and doing
something else so if you're gonna count
that but other than that literally from
the moment I wake up until the moment I
go to bed I'm either working or working
out period that's why on the weekend it
is so important that I give her
undivided attention
aggressively I'll stop there Jason
st. Germain Facebook I hit the gym
religiously twice a day 4 a.m. every
morning 5 p.m. every evening I have
completely disciplined myself to do this
day in and day out my question is how do
I do that with work how can I channel
that same energy into my career and
furthering my career thanks Jason you
just need to give a [__] so the way that
you care about your physique the way
that you care about your strength the
way that you care about doing the hard
things and showing up in the gym and all
of that you need to find something you
care like that about that you can get a
job doing it is that simple this all
comes down to in your life and maybe it
is the gym but in your life there is
something that will ignite that same
passion in you and you can get paid
doing it you may not ever get paid a
king's ransom
but everybody everybody can make a
living doing what they love my dad was
just telling me about this woman she's
like I'm gonna guess she's mid 60's late
60s maybe even early 70s that's where my
dad's at and she just opened a quilting
shop I can't believe there's money to be
made in a quilting shop that literally
seems insane to me and yet it's I guess
one of the fastest growing hobbies so
look there whatever weird finger if you
guys ever heard of furries this this
changed my perception of humanity there
are people that like to dress up as like
mascots like big furry animals and it's
a sexual thing for them and there are
conventions for people for whom this is
a very erotic thing okay
now let's all agree if there are
conventions for people that like to
dress up essentially like a stuffed
animal and it is erotic for them
whatever weird thing you're into there
is a group of people out there and going
to Kevin Kelly's notion of a thousand to
fans only takes a thousand true fans to
build a community robust enough that you
can make a living that doesn't mean that
you're gonna make a hundred thousand
dollars a year it doesn't mean that
you're gonna be a millionaire it just
means you can make a living but if
you're making a living doing something
that makes you feel like dude when you
describe what you do in the gym you
sound like an alien to me I cannot
believe that you get that much out of
the gym but that's awesome that you get
that and you love it so find that thing
that you can get paid doing which by the
way being a personal trainer or doing
something in that world certainly is a
very obvious answer check out our boys
at mind pump if you guys don't know
those guys they're amazing and they've
done a great job of turning a love for
fitness into a very robust career Rachel
Epps this is YouTube what was more
powerful for you in raid Aaliyah's
principles the way you communicate with
people effectively the way you set
principles for your life or the way you
can successfully build a team for life
of those three things because these
aren't what I'll call the key takeaways
that I took of these three things what
was more powerful for me and the way you
communicate with people effectively
was real life the thing that was huge
for me that book to me was all all all
about building teams so that's what I
needed so that was the just the
massively huge take away from me is and
by the way for me the punchline to how
to build a lifelong team is really about
being able to speak truth and hear truth
so that that's a big deal
like building that foundation where you
know you can trust people you know that
you know where you stand with them that
deep deep deep sense of unease that
comes from being handled or managed in
the emotional sense you have to get rid
of that otherwise there's toxicity in
the environment so that was that was
game-changing for me that shattered
every paradigm I had it it was it showed
that I had a limitation of belief I
didn't think that you could scale that
like it just never it actually never
occurred to me that you can do that
across a large organization so I am very
very grateful to Ray Dalio
yeah that is a deep sense of gratitude
ok I don't how to say this name three
Rhino media look at that chase through
the rescue everybody three Rhino media
YouTube Tom can you talk about think it
a ting I'd love to learn about how I can
incorporate it into my life I love the
concept just don't know how to do it
okay so thing attaining goes like this
it starts with meditating and the point
of meditating for me anyway is purely to
get into an alpha wave state which is
calm and creative so my stress my
anxiety they drop to nothing I'm
diaphragm breathing I'm my eyes closed
I'm sitting in a pretty traditional
meditative posture legs crossed arms
folded in my lap the only difference is
I don't try to keep my spine super erect
I find that that's actually
uncomfortable and I can't take his deep
breaths and maybe if I did it for you
know a year or something I would find it
was even more powerful but because what
I do is so effective for me that I just
rock it out so I sit there in that uber
comfortable position on a couch it just
wonderful
diaphragm breathe I get pretty rapidly
now into an alpha wave state and then
once I'm there I sit there for as long
as it's pleasurable and then and I'm
trying not to think about anything I'm
literally because I listen to the sounds
on the app calm I listen to the sounds
of
and so I really try to like hear the
wind blow or the waves crashing or you
know whatever I'm really like just into
that and I'm feeling the pleasure of
each part of the breast cycle cool I get
there then I bring my laptop over and I
just let my mind wander so whereas
before I was really trying to focus in
on you know the sounds and the feeling
of the breath you don't have to do
anything to start your mind thinking to
get it to go in a direction you need
only give it an intention so whatever a
big problem is that I'm facing in the
business I will take that and I'll say
okay that's the topic that's the thing
that I want to think about and so as
soon as I let my mind go and it starts
going on problems it starts naturally
first going down that road know
oftentimes it'll veer off in a little
branch do a thousand other directions if
those directions have to do with
business or priorities or whatever then
I'll just let it go I'll let it branch
if it goes into something else that
doesn't seem like it's gonna help me
very much then I will gently bring it
back and I will reset it down the path
of thinking about whatever that problem
or issue or thing is that I'm trying to
do and I just find that then I get lost
in that rumination it becomes like a
full-blown daydream I completely lose
sight of where I'm at and by the way I'm
keeping my eyes closed for this unless
I'm actively typing so I'm still sitting
there usually by now I have to uncross
my legs because it'll start to fall
asleep so I'm done crossed my legs my
laptop is on my lap but I'm in usually a
darkened environment I still have my
headphones on and I try to keep
breathing in that diaphragm way so I'm
staying in that alpha wave state and I'm
just letting my thoughts go where they
will unless they go completely afield
and then I bring them back and so that's
it and the big difference between
meditating and that is a I let my
thoughts go and then be I take notes on
my thoughts whereas I would never do
that when I was meditating
so that's singing Benji bollock Facebook
hey Tom I know you know a lot about
reticular activating system I would love
to know your thoughts on how it comes
into building better habits how does it
come to building better habits so the
reticular activating system is what
makes you notice things so once you
decide the easy one for everybody if you
buy a car and let's say it's a white
Toyota all of a sudden you see white -
it is every
and you're like how did I not see those
before so that's a reticular activating
system it prioritizes what to pay
attention to based on what's meaningful
to you in your life at that moment so
the way that the RAS would come into
play here would be you're gonna see
other people that have the same habit
which may then draw you to and I'm
definitely thinking of this off the cuff
would then draw you into being around
people like that so you're suddenly
going to start noticing people you're
gonna start speaking about it you're
gonna see who responds and you're gonna
start grouping up with like-minded
people that could be very very
beneficial you're gonna start seeing the
results everywhere so I remember when I
first started eating right learning
about health and nutrition and
exercising suddenly I was seeing it
everywhere I would then notice those
magazines
in the grocery store which meant that I
was in going to them I was picking them
up whereas buying them reading them you
start identifying what kind of physique
that you want to have and so then you've
got that inspiration when you're in the
gym and suddenly all of those elements
of the world that you weren't thinking
about unless he didn't have a habit
around you're not noticing now that you
have a habit now that you're focusing on
it you can leverage those elements to be
the thing that you can visualize to
refeed into your life so without having
ever really thought about that before
that seems like a pretty reasonable
answer alright Bilal Hikari YouTube how
do you move from knowledge to practice I
mean I know I should do I know I should
do you sound very British but I find it
hard to switch to action I feel like
there is a huge gap between my knowledge
of my actions okay so here's the reality
when you first start learning something
put it to use right then and there when
I learn something I try to put it to use
that day so if I learn a new
psychological principle something about
mindset or habit creation or whatever it
is that I'm researching I try to use it
that day if I read something like I'm
reading The Gulag Archipelago right now
holy [__] is it fascinating and so I
take my opportunities to talk about it I
bring it up to people anybody that I
think might even be remotely interested
I will bring it up because then I can
marinate it I can sit in the juices of
that stuff and that then reinforces it
in my mind every now and then I will
make my team sit through some diatribe
where I'm like look I need to
crystallize my thinking so I need you
guys to be here so I'm gonna run through
like I've been thinking a lot about the
comic industry
why it is so dysfunctional how to take
it somewhere new hopefully expand which
by the way part of the answer is they
just can't be called comics so as much
as that like resonates with me people in
the world have made a decision either
read comics or they don't
so I'll float out my terrible idea and
then you guys give me good ideas my
terrible idea is paper movies so graphic
novels don't work because it only works
for once has been collected I need
something for what they call floppies a
single issue so we know we can't use
graphic novels and we know comics it
just needs a rebrand so anyway back to
it so I try to use that thing
immediately in my life putting it to use
right away that is knowing that I'm
going to be clumsy knowing that it's
gonna feel really awkward in the
beginning and I just accept that and I
just know that if I don't take action
steps right now here in this moment then
I'm never going to do it so I'm guessing
part of what holds you back is either
you don't care enough about what you're
learning to want to put it in action
because remember I have this absolute
sense of desperation to get more
powerful and to me power is closing your
eyes imagining a world a better world
the world that you want to bring into
existence then opening your eyes and
having the skill set in order to
actually make that a reality so that is
so intoxicating to me the notion that we
can influence the world around us that
any scrap of information that I get that
allows me to do more of that in the real
world I'm all for it and so because I
love it and I love being able to change
the world around me and being able to
affect people and touch lives I want to
put it to use so that's a huge part of
it and then I'm way unafraid to
embarrass myself look awkward feel
stupid I know that that's all part of
the growing process so you gonna have to
get real comfortable with that stuff
wasun good bye how can I focus on myself
while others are ahead of me career and
finance wise I have anxiety because I
want a job that pays well like them
okay so tattoo this on your soul
comparison is the thief of joy this is
one of those things as soon as I read it
I was like oh my god that's so true okay
I'm gonna be a little bit gross for a
minute
but only to give you something that's
really true and like super vulnerable so
spastically wealthy massive Beverly
Hills mansion huge social following and
if I look at other people that have more
money a bigger house a bigger following
I get that moment of like oh I suck and
I'm like this is so ridiculous like it's
it is just a part of the human condition
once you start comparing yourself to
other people there's always somebody
bigger better faster stronger
always always always here's the
hilarious part that person is also
feeling the same so you just you don't
waste your time
it is this weird quirk of human
evolution like to want to strive but
once you start comparing yourself to
other people it will take it away
so celebrate be excited for and find
pleasure in what you're doing what are
what are you doing like right now right
now my doing is I'm sitting in front of
a [__] camera with two people on the
team and we're trying to give awesome
answers that are gonna help people that
is what I'm doing so I need to find
pleasure in that in this moment sitting
in this chair answering these questions
I need to find a way to enjoy that
otherwise it's gonna be a real problem
and then make sure that you're building
towards something that you really care
about instead of comparing yourself to
others chasing them chasing what they
have you just can't think of it like
that it's got to be about what you're
trying to become it's got to be about
the people that you want to help it's
got to be about things you're actually
doing in that moment and finding the
pleasure in that so yeah
stop comparing yourself to other people
stop worrying about how much other
people make like none of that matters
it's not gonna help you think about who
you want to become the becoming should
be something that is intensely
pleasurable in and of itself even when
it's hard by the way it's a pleasurable
because that deep sense of fulfillment
that you get a feeling better about who
you are being proud of yourself so lean
into all of that stuff and know you're
going to have the temptation to compare
yourself to other people stop yourself
bring yourself back to Center realize
how ridiculous it is and realize no
matter what you get okay let's say that
you
I'm eight the people that you're
comparing yourself to now and you're
making way more money than them you just
start comparing yourself to the next
batch of people that are making more
than you and if you let that be
corrosive it's gonna eat away at you you
life will be full of misery so I'm
telling you comparison really is the
thief of joy that is not just like some
clever thing that people repeat it is
the [__] truth about the human
condition so don't do that as as my
neighbor's dad used to tell me when I
was a kid if it hurts when you do that
don't do that and on that we're gonna
bid farewell all right guys thank you so
much for joining me I really do love
spending this time with you I'm super
grateful that you guys join in on this
your questions are amazing if you're
listening to this on the podcast please
go leave a review that would be just
amazingly helpful if it's bringing value
hit us with that five star give us a
positive review does not have to be long
but those reviews really help so that
would be amazing thank you guys so much
have an amazing weekend take the time to
not only bust your ass but play have a
good time encounter new stuff expand
your horizons and remember if you want
to make your habit stick it's got to be
something that you really care about all
right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be a legendary take care
[Music]
[Applause]